README.md, before:


# 🐸 Frogs Classification Project

## 📌 Project Description

This project is a **machine learning classification system** that identifies different frog species from images using a trained TensorFlow Lite model. It can be used in mobile apps, desktop apps, or embedded systems to classify frogs in real time. The repository includes the trained model, screenshots of classification results, and example outputs.  

## 🎯 Why This Project Was Created

This project was created to:
- Demonstrate the use of **TensorFlow Lite** for image classification tasks.
- Provide a lightweight model suitable for mobile and embedded platforms.
- Help users understand how machine learning can be applied to species recognition and biodiversity monitoring.
- Support educational and conservation-oriented tools by automating frog species identification.

## 🛠️ Tools Used

✔️ **TensorFlow Lite** – Model format and inference engine  
✔️ Python / ML Libraries – (for model evaluation and preprocessing)  
✔️ Firebase (optional) – For backend integration in app prototypes  
✔️ Image assets and model screenshots included for documentation and demo

---

## 🐸 Frog Species Reference Table

This table shows the frog species this model can classify. Each entry includes an images, common name, scientific name, and a brief description.

| Image | Class Name | Scientific Name | Description |
|------|------------|------------------|-------------|
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/american_bullfrog.jpg" width="70"> | **American Bullfrog** | *Lithobates catesbeianus* | A large frog known for its deep croak and freshwater habitat. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/poison_dart_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Poison Dart Frog** | *Dendrobatidae* | Brightly colored frogs with toxic skin secretions. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/desert_rain_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Desert Rain Frog** | *Breviceps macrops* | Small burrowing frog adapted to sandy coastal deserts. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/glass_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Glass Frog** | *Centrolenidae* | Frog with semi-transparent belly skin. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/green_tree_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Green Tree Frog** | *Hyla cinerea* | Arboreal frog with sticky toe pads for climbing. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/red_eyed_tree_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Red-eyed Tree Frog** | *Agalychnis callidryas* | Green frog with red eyes, active at night. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/golden_poison_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Golden Poison Frog** | *Phyllobates terribilis* | One of the most toxic animals in the world. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/northern_leopard_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Northern Leopard Frog** | *Lithobates pipiens* | Spotted frog found in wetlands and grasslands. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/wood_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Wood Frog** | *Lithobates sylvaticus* | Forest frog that can survive freezing temperatures. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/surinam_horned_frog.jpg" width="60"> | **Surinam Horned Frog** | *Ceratophrys cornuta* | Large ambush predator with horn-like eye projections. |


---

Commit message:

Update image widths and add app screenshots section
Increased image width for frog species table and added app screenshots section.

README.md, after:


# 🐸 Frogs Classification Project

## 📌 Project Description

This project is a **machine learning classification system** that identifies different frog species from images using a trained TensorFlow Lite model. It can be used in mobile apps, desktop apps, or embedded systems to classify frogs in real time. The repository includes the trained model, screenshots of classification results, and example outputs.  

## 🎯 Why This Project Was Created

This project was created to:
- Demonstrate the use of **TensorFlow Lite** for image classification tasks.
- Provide a lightweight model suitable for mobile and embedded platforms.
- Help users understand how machine learning can be applied to species recognition and biodiversity monitoring.
- Support educational and conservation-oriented tools by automating frog species identification.

## 🛠️ Tools Used

✔️ **TensorFlow Lite** – Model format and inference engine  
✔️ Python / ML Libraries – (for model evaluation and preprocessing)  
✔️ Firebase (optional) – For backend integration in app prototypes  
✔️ Image assets and model screenshots included for documentation and demo

---

## 🐸 Frog Species Reference Table

This table shows the frog species this model can classify. Each entry includes an images, common name, scientific name, and a brief description.

| Image | Class Name | Scientific Name | Description |
|------|------------|------------------|-------------|
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/american_bullfrog.jpg" width="90"> | **American Bullfrog** | *Lithobates catesbeianus* | A large frog known for its deep croak and freshwater habitat. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/poison_dart_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Poison Dart Frog** | *Dendrobatidae* | Brightly colored frogs with toxic skin secretions. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/desert_rain_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Desert Rain Frog** | *Breviceps macrops* | Small burrowing frog adapted to sandy coastal deserts. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/glass_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Glass Frog** | *Centrolenidae* | Frog with semi-transparent belly skin. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/green_tree_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Green Tree Frog** | *Hyla cinerea* | Arboreal frog with sticky toe pads for climbing. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/red_eyed_tree_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Red-eyed Tree Frog** | *Agalychnis callidryas* | Green frog with red eyes, active at night. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/golden_poison_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Golden Poison Frog** | *Phyllobates terribilis* | One of the most toxic animals in the world. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/northern_leopard_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Northern Leopard Frog** | *Lithobates pipiens* | Spotted frog found in wetlands and grasslands. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/wood_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Wood Frog** | *Lithobates sylvaticus* | Forest frog that can survive freezing temperatures. |
| <img src="CodesFinalApp/assets/images/surinam_horned_frog.jpg" width="90"> | **Surinam Horned Frog** | *Ceratophrys cornuta* | Large ambush predator with horn-like eye projections. |


## 📱 App Screenshots

Below are sample screenshots of the frog classification application, showing the user interface and classification process.

<p align="center">
  ## Home Screen
  <img src="AppScreenshots/homepage.jpg" width="200">
  <img src="AppScreenshots/camera_view.png" width="200">
  <img src="AppScreenshots/classification_result.png" width="200">
</p>



---
